# VCF Analyser

Variant Calling Format (VCF) files are used for storing gene sequence variations. Much of the gneomic data can be redundant, as the genetic information is shared accross multiple genomes, VCF files only show the variations along with a reference genome. VCF are composed by a header and a body, the header provides metadata describing the rest of the file. The body is tab separated into 8 mandatory columns plus a number of other optional columns. The mandatory columns are: 

- CHROM - Chromosome number
- POS - Position of the variation
- ID - Identifier of the variation, if unknown ".
- REF - Base in the reference sequence
- ALT - Alternative bases in the position
- QUAL - Quality score
- FILTER - What filters the variation has passed
- INFO - description of the variation

This mini-app offers a basic variant exploratory data analysis.

- Exploratory analysis of variants
- Visualize patterns (mutation spread, quality scores)
- Link variants to a data source
- Basic QC analysis

### Variant Browser

The table in the middle of the page shows all the body of the VCF file. This table can be filtered by sample, chromosome and position using the options in the left-side column (Inputs). If you select one variant by clicking on the row, the right-side box be filled with the annotation information for that variant. The information displayed consist of:

- Coordinates (CHR:POS)
- Link to open the variant in Ensemble
- Base change between Reference (REF) and Alternative (ALT)
- Quality
- Number of clinical variants

A small table will also appear with more inforamtion about the selected variant.

If you click on "View VCF Header", the header of the VCF file will appear at the bottom of the screen.

### SNP Densities

This tab displays a graph showing the SNP distributions. Using the left-side box (Inputs), the user can filter the data being displayed in the graph by choosing a different chromosome and a specific genomic range.

### SNP Type Distribution

This tab displays a heatmap showing the number of SNPs by base change. sing the left-side box (Inputs), the user can filter the data being displayed in the graph by choosing a different chromosome and a specific genomic range.

### Quality Distribution

The values in the QUAL column in the VCF file are Phred-scaled quality scores, which measure the quality of identification of the nucleobases generated by RNA sequencing. High QUAL scores indicate high confidence in the ALT assertion, for example, a QUAL>60 indicates that, in a variant site, the probability that the ALT is not a variant is less than 10e-6.

This tab shows a Manhattan plot of all the quality scores in the VCF file, the user can filter by chromosome.


